Fix Recovery Pseudocode (#2907)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-recovery.md

data has been received from the client.

Because the server could be blocked until more packets are received, the client
MUST ensure that the retransmission timer is set if the client has not received

> an ACK in a Handshake packet or does not yet have 1-RTT keys.  If the probe

Reviewer: or -> and

Reviewer 2: I think this should be 'or'.

data has been received from the client.

Because the server could be blocked until more packets are received, the client
MUST ensure that the retransmission timer is set if the client has not received

> an ACK in a Handshake packet and does not yet have 1-RTT keys.  If the probe

Reviewer 2: This still doesn't work. I think spell it out a bit more might help clarify... how about replacing the sentence with:

"Since the server could be blocked until more packets are received from the client, it is the client's responsibility to send data to unblock the server until it is certain that the server has finished its validation. That is, the client MUST set the retransmission timer if one of the following conditions is true: the client does not yet have 1-RTT keys, or the client has not received an ACK for one of its Handshake packets."

Author: Suggestion accepted with some minor tweaks, PTAL.

  space = Initial
  for pn_space in [ Handshake, ApplicationData ]:
    if (loss_time[pn_space] != 0 &&

>         (time == 0 or loss_time[pn_space] < time)):

Reviewer 3: so && for and and "or" for || ?

Author: Prior to this PR, most of the pseudocode was && and || I realize, so I'm going back to that.

    return

  // Don't arm timer if there are no ack-eliciting packets
  // in flight and the endpoint is a server.  Do arm the
  // timer until the client has received a Handshake ACK
  // or completed the handshake.
  if (no ack-eliciting packets in flight &&
      (endpoint is server or has 1-RTT keys

>        or has received Handshake ACK)):

Reviewer 3: we should be consistent about || vs or and && vs and

    return

  // Don't arm timer if there are no ack-eliciting packets
  // in flight and the endpoint is a server or has
  // completed the handshake.
  if (no ack-eliciting packets in flight &&

>       (endpoint is server or has 1-RTT keys)):

Reviewer: endpoint is server or has received hs ack or an ack of an 1-RTT packet (not a 1-RTT packet, this could be an ack of 0RTT)

Reviewer: Sorry, just add "has received HS ack" and we're good. There's a case where the server flight doesn't fit in a cwnd and the extra text may save us a crypto timeout.

    return

  // Don't arm timer if there are no ack-eliciting packets
  // in flight and the endpoint is a server.  Do arm the
  // timer until the client has received a Handshake ACK

>   // or completed the handshake.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // or has completed the handshake.
```

    loss_detection_timer.update(loss_time)
    return

  // Cancel the timer if there are no ack-eliciting packets
  // in flight and the endpoint is a server. Do not cancel the
  // timer until the client has received a Handshake or 1-RTT ACK.
  if (no ack-eliciting packets in flight &&
      (endpoint is server ||
       has received Handshake ACK ||

>        has received 1-RTT ACK)):

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: if !(ack-eliciting packet in flight || (endpoint is client && has not received handshake ACK && has not received 1-RTT ACK))

Author: As a code reviewer, I'd request a method like PeerAwaitingAddressValidation() and say 

if (no ack-eliciting packets in flight &&
     !PeerAwaitingAddressValidation()):

    loss_detection_timer.update(loss_time)
    return

  // Cancel the timer if there are no ack-eliciting packets

>   // in flight and the endpoint is a server. Do not cancel the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // in flight, with the following exception. Do not cancel the
```

>   // timer until the client has received an acknowledgement that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // timer at a client until the client has received an acknowledgement that
```

>   // timer at a client until the client has received an acknowledgement that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // timer at a client until it has received an acknowledgement that
```

    return

  // Don't arm timer if there are no ack-eliciting packets
  // in flight and the endpoint is a server.  Do arm the
  // timer until the client has received a Handshake ACK
  // or has completed the handshake.
  if (no ack-eliciting packets in flight &&
      (endpoint is server ||
       has 1-RTT keys ||

>        has received Handshake ACK)):

Reviewer 3: The prose I would use here is:

An endpoint always keeps the timer running if it has an ack-eliciting packet that has not been acknowledged.

A client keeps the timer running during the handshake until it has confirmed that the server is no longer limited in how much it can send.  The server needs to acknowledge a Handshake packet or a 1-RTT packet from the client to demonstrate this.
